Good morning, folks.
Oh, got to update the titles, don't I?
Doing data viz and see
there.
just update the titles.
It doesn't update on X, but whatever.
We will get back to doing UI and see
because it's fun. Um, but for the time
being,
got to catch up on some basic stuff.
Today's going to be just be kind of a
chill day.
The goal is going to be that we run some
baselines. We checked through some
experiments. We put up uh some slides,
maybe a little basic presentation.
That's what we're going to do.
So,
uh to start with,
switch over to stream view.
That
I think that the first thing we're going
to do
morning Move
all this out of the way.
Let me see if I can figure out what is
finally wrong with this
annoying thing here.
And I have managed to like just fully
exhaust myself.
Oh, well,
have some basic stuff to do. Anyways,
I just have to go find um
Welcome Prime.
Okay. So according to these guys
apparently this thing is
getting reward. board.
Iran co games.
Where the hell is the config?
Dude, where is this?
mission and name and config.
But where is the trainer?
I do not understand this.
What else is there to add to the
dashboard? Quite a bit. Um, well, not
really quite a bit in terms of features.
It just needs to be cleaned up. So, I
didn't get to update the title for uh
last for today.
um not what I'm going to be working on
probably for a decent chunk of today at
least.
So I'll I'll show it though really
quick.
So this is where we ended from last week
with the the dashboard, right?
Really really nice fast dashboard,
right?
Um, but that actually takes real thought
to like work on that and I'm kind of
burnt. I did like a full day on Saturday
of this and then Sunday I literally was
just lifting weights all day. So, easing
into the start of the week. The goal is
I've got a couple things I got to figure
out for these guys on how to get them a
decent baseline. I've got a like a
little demo of some type to put together
for a presentation on Wednesday for a
lab that I'm working with. Uh I owe a
whole bunch of people PR reviews, right,
for all the new environments that people
have been making. So, I can catch up on
that and I'm going to see how I'm
feeling after working on just this type
of stuff for a few hours. And maybe
we'll go back to vis.
So, this is like the story on this is
it's a really cool project, but I can
just never make heads or tails of their
code.
Um, so I try to help them as best I can,
but it's actually it's just very very
difficult for me to figure out where the
hell anything ever is. And it always
moves around.
Okay. So this is hardcoded I guess.
What is this?
Okay, they just have everything
hardcoded
and this is mostly taken from me.
Okay,
let me see if I can figure out.
Actually,
I'm just going to like Hang on. I didn't
realize it actually run this whole good
hyper.
Let me just link them this sweep.
deposited amount.
Hey, Martin.
He'll reply to me on that.
We'll keep this up. Um, in the meantime
though,
actually, you know what? This is a great
thing to ask the stream because
a lab that I work with where the
students at least some of them don't do
low-level dev uh they've been asking me
for a tutorial
on uh puffer lib and like creating high
performance environments.
So, if you go to the puffer docs, right,
literally right on the docs page,
the only thing that's on this whole page
other than this glossery thing is
exactly that. It's a tutorial on writing
environments
with like full complete code. Right?
Here's complete code. There's even like
a second whole tutorial right here,
right? With all sorts of code. It's all
commented.
So, I guess what I want to know for my
users is like, what should I do that's
going to make this easier for you?
Right?
Like, if I were to make some other type
of tutorial, what would you want it to
be?
Is it that the environments are too
simple? Is that I'm not Is it that I'm
not covering them in a reasonable way?
like what can I do to make it easier for
people to understand how like quick and
powerful it can be to uh to do dev on
this
tutorial
type video.
So basically people just want video form
content then right
because like
I'm trying to like that's the only thing
I can think of
is just have something in video form.
Well this is the problem mechanics. I
don't either but it's the most common
question I get.
And it's like it's a fair bit of code to
have to like do in a a 20 minute
tutorial.
Like let's say I wanted to make target,
right?
Well, this is the thing though. I I
guess I could have it linked on the
website, but every time people ask me
this, right, I direct them to my guide.
Oops.
Maybe I should just go back to working
on the visuals.
So, I have this whole guide here where
it's literally been step by step. read
this, write this, do this, read this,
and like I take you through everything.
Like the like the less charitable part
of me, right, wants to think that this
is simply a matter of people wanting
video form content because video form
content is very easy. you just watch it
and you feel like you've learned
something even if you haven't.
Whereas like you actually have to work
through this. It's not that hard, but
you do have to work through it. You
can't just consume it passively,
right?
Hey, Finn.
I will be back to you on that message as
well. I look forward to seeing the uh
the drone stuff.
It's going to be awesome.
I will be back to you soon on that.
But yeah, this is I'm very much looking
forward to seeing the drone stuff. This
will be cool.
for uh for the reference for reference
Finn. So this weekend I literally all
Saturday I was like live stream like I
literally did live stream breakfast,
live stream uh lunch, live stream
dinner, live stream bed, all the
development. And then yesterday I was so
burnt out from that that uh I just like
lifted weights all day long. And today
I'm like semiback but trying to get my
bear off.
I had to figure out some paperwork
around that thing.
Articles adequate link just have it. I
can definitely link some stuff.
Difficult to put yourself in the shoes.
It definitely is right Gary.
I've tried to put most of those like if
I were starting out, what would help
though? I've like I've tried to put
those into two different articles,
right? These two articles and these are
my two best received articles as well.
This one literally got like a this one
got like a stamp of approval from
Carmarmac, which is the highest possible
form of praise I could ask for. Heck, I
got to go get that tweet like printed
and framed.
And then this one is, you know, all my
best RL advice.
I'm sure there are a million other
little things
I haven't thought of.
I tried to put even like the even like
the simple tangential stuff that kind of
matters.
Anybody
else here? I mean, we have a fair few
folks, YouTube, Twitch.
Um, is there anything that you would
like to see from me in terms of content
on
getting into building like Hyperf RL
environments?
because I'm supposed to give a tutorial
this Wednesday for a lab on this. And if
I can make something in the process that
would be helpful for more people around
here, I'd like to do so
cuz like otherwise I would just do a
walkthrough of this target environment
code.
I can just try to do this live. You know
what? Here's what I'll do, guys. I'm
going to start going through this
environment live.
I'm not great at giving impromptu
presentations. I'm actually a pretty
good presenter, but all my stuff is is
very heavily rehearsed and practiced.
So, I'm just going to go through this
impromptu live and
uh we're going to see whether this is
useful to you and
uh in what form, you know, I could
change this to make it more useful. Does
that sound good?
and then just ask me all the questions
that you'd like in chat along the way.
I'm live on uh X, YouTube, Twitch. The
chat should generally all work. Twitch's
lowest latency. YouTube's not terrible.
And I just have to fix one small thing
so that this demo will work on the
current branch
and we'll go through this uh little
tutorial for you all. And this will be
this will count as practice for
Wednesday. And then this will count as
potentially new ideas for better ways to
present present this information.
And this will be a good warm-up for the
stream as well cuz I'm still pretty
exhausted.
How puffer lib is in the context like
why it's better.
So, I've always had a difficult time
with this mechanics because the thing is
I can't really put puffer liib into a
box. Like puffer liib isn't a tool to do
X. It's not like a library that's like,
you know, Y but also Z. Puffer is a
comprehensive effort uh for me to
advance reinforcement learning in every
possible way I think is relevant. Right?
It's like a comprehensive effort. So,
what does Puffer Lib have? It has high
performance simulation. It has tooling
that makes it easier to do high perf. It
has vectorization for faster distributed
processing. It has a high performance
trainer. It has the fruits of
algorithmic research, right? It has uh a
high performance hyperparameter tuning
setup that is also like new algorithmic
research. It has additional
visualization tools, right? It has so so
so many different things in it at this
point. And it's all in this like pretty
compact package that's pretty easy to
get started with. So this is just me
setting up
me setting up a project to advance
reinforcement learning in the best way I
can think of and then making it useful
for other stuff as well.
The simpler explanation I do is is
really for non-technical people who are
not trying to learn this stuff. They
just want like the quick two sentence
thing.
Welcome spy.
And
I have to reboot the Docker container.
Then we'll do the tutorial.
All right. So,
this environment is target. This is a
multi- aent environment. Each puffer is
controlled independently.
The puffers want to eat stars. You can
help me out by starring Puffer Lib on
GitHub. What we're going to do right now
is we're going to go through the source
code for this so you can see how simple
it is to build a high performance even
multi-agent environment that trains in a
few seconds
uh where you can actually learn
something reasonable like this. And just
to demonstrate to you
this works. I'm going to probably have
to make one config change. Nope.
Apparently not. So this is training the
agent. You can see episode length going
down, which is the time it takes it to
get a star.
We're going to train this thing for 100
million steps in less than 30 seconds.
Okay, there you go. 100 million steps,
26 seconds. It's running a little extra
evaluation at the end right now.
Okay, it's done. And now I'm going to
show you
this is evaling a random policy. So this
is what looks like if the model is
untrained,
right? And now
I break loading.
Oh, okay. Well,
hang on. This is uh
Come on.
Damn. Experiments.
Okay, great. Well, lucky me. I uh have
to switch branches.
All right, here.
Try this one more time.
Oops.
I was on the wrong branch.
Apparently, I broke in loading on the uh
the dev branch.
Give me a solid RL road map. I have an
article on that.
Right. This article right here gives you
everything.
Okay.
And hopefully this works.
There we go. So this is the model that
we just trained
in spy. It's C and Python mostly,
but most of the code is C. All the SIM
code is C. Okay. So here's your model.
It's trained in under 30 seconds. 100
million steps. Now, I'm going to show
you how to build this thing.
So, first of all, uh with Puffer Lab,
every single environment has its own
folder under Ocean. Ocean is our suite
of custom environments. The reason that
we put all the environments inside of
Ocean instead of like giving you a third
party API that you can just call is
because it's kind of annoying to bind uh
C extensions to Python. So, if you just
do it here inside of Puffer Lib or
inside of a fork, you get to use our
build system and then you don't have to
do it yourself. We're going to figure
out a way to make that easier
eventually, but for now, just do it this
way. And then pretty much all the code
for target uh is just right here. Now,
there are a few different files in here.
Let's start with the Python file.
What framework do I need to learn? No
frameworks.
If you look if you follow both of my
articles though that's basically that
takes you through the whole process
it's very minimalistic this whole
project like very minimal like you have
pietorch for the learning side but like
it's not going to be a thing where you
know it's just a wrapper around some big
framework a lot of this is just very
minimal from scratch okay so this target
environment here
it's only about a screen of code.
Yeah. And then there's this little tiny
speed test at the bottom. Uh there's no
real logic in here. This is just the
Python entry point into the CC code
right here. This is importing the CC
code.
This inherits from our puffer N which is
like a gymnasium environment but
vectorzed. It's like a vectorn format.
Most of these params are not required.
These two are this buffer parameter is
very important. Typically we have since
it is a vector format we have this num
m's thing in here. You can specify the
number of uh C environments inside of
this one Python environment. Not
required but we recommend it. You get
your observation and action spaces. This
is the same as gymnasium pretty much. In
fact we even we're using the gymnasium
spaces directly here. We set a couple
additional things. rendering information
numbum agents couple required properties
and now this here this is very important
to not mess up. So you need to pass this
buffer to in it because the class uh is
going to end up having selfobservation
self action self everything and the
reason that puffer has this is because
it allows us to use big blocks of shared
memory.
So this little chunk here is kind of
annoying, but this is what lets us do
all our PF optimizations under the hood
for you.
And now here I'm simply going to loop
over all the different environments that
I want to create. I'm going to init a C
environment here and I append it to a
list. And if you actually look at what
each of these CMS is, it's just going to
be a number. It's just a pointer. Python
doesn't have pointers, but it is the
it's an address. It's used by C. You see
I give it a slice here of the
observations. This is the slice of
observations that we're going to fill in
which is just the number of agents times
the index of the environment. Same for
actions, rewards, terminals,
truncations, all these just go into
binding.
Extra parameters that are environment
specific can go here as well. I just
append this and then you call vectorz.
And vectorz gives you this single
CMS thing that you can now call vector
methods on directly.
Use working out as a tool to enhance
your learning.
It's what I do in a my spare time. It
helps me tremendously mentally. It's a
source of discipline. It's a source of I
mean just general health.
That's a big part of my life.
research is very uncertain, right?
Sometimes the outcome of like a month's
worth of work, like really good high
quality work where I put in everything
is going to be that I simply discover
that a problem cannot be solved in the
way that I was expecting, right? And
that can get really demotivating. So,
it's very nice to have like a constant
thing that I put effort into, right?
That I can get results. It's a very
consistent stable aspect of my life.
All right, so we have vector methods
here. These are the same as you'd expect
from the normal gymnasium API, normal RL
APIs. They're just they operate over a
bunch of environments and they're
hooking into C. Here we are going to
reset all the M's. You can pass it a
seed as well. It returns observations
and a empty list for infos.
step method takes in actions. You notice
here that the way that we're passing
actions is actually by setting the
actions buffer because everything is
done through shared buffers. You call
step on the environments
and then every so often we will go check
for logs and collect those. Other than
that you return the standard RL
signature observations for boards,
terminals, truncations, and same for
render, same for close. Little speed
test here. We make a whole bunch of
environments.
We pre-allocate some actions
and then we step the environments. And
if I do this,
let's see how fast target is.
This is not based on cognit uh on
cognition papers. Ready? This is uh pure
empirical science.
34 million steps per second.
So very very fast environment, right?
That's on one core as well.
So where's the uh the magic happen for
this? Well, there's one additional thing
that we have to go through here, which
is the binding file, which is the glue
that's going to put the Python and the C
together. It's very short. You simply
define the environment name. You include
theh file, and then you include this
endbinding file. This endbinding file is
what takes your single environment and
makes a bunch of copies for it and runs
loops over them. You define an init
method here. This init takes any
arguments that you would like to pass to
your environment.
It simply sets the property of the
environment to the value from this
parameter using this unpack helper. And
then the exact same thing with logging.
Anything that you want to smuggle out of
the environment to put into logs, you
put here.
And that's all you have to do for
bindings. And you know, if you use our
binding system, it's nice and easy. Now,
all the logic for this environment is
inside theh 233 lines, including whites
space and everything.
We've got some standard includes. All
these are per environment. The only
thing that we do regular is we use Rayb
for rendering. Ray is awesome. You'd be
bat [__] insane to use anything else.
It's that good.
First standard component for puffer m a
log strct. This strct must exist. It
must be called logs. It must have this
float n field as the last field in the
strruct.
And we suggest that you put in perf
score, return, and length. These are
recommended but not required.
And these are going to be where we
aggregate all of the performance metrics
for your environment.
I have a little strct for the client
here that contains a couple textures.
Not standard, not required. And then I
also have the strct here for the agent.
Not standard, not required. You can do
whatever you want here. Same for goal.
Not standard, not required.
Now here we have the required
standard strct that holds your
environment. Your environment is going
to be a strct. It's C. You don't have
classes, you have strrus. So the
environment will have a strct that with
an appropriate name.
It's got to have a log. Struct has to
have a log field like this. And then
strct has to have observations, actions,
rewards, and terminals. The data types
of these you need to be very careful
with that they match the Python, but
they can vary. So observations do not
have to be floats. There will often be
like unsigned chars or something in
order to save on space. It just has to
match the data type that you've declared
in the observation space. Same thing
with actions. Actions can be int or
discrete or they can actually be float
for continuous. Rewards are always going
to be floats. Terminals are always going
to be unsaid chars. We don't currently
actually support truncated even though
it's technically in the API.
Other properties that you would like,
you can set up here.
Generally, we recommend you have some
sort of init method. This can get called
from that my shared thing from before
from your custom constructor.
You see right here that I call this
init.
That's your init method here in case you
need to do any additional allocation of
memory.
We highly suggest not allocating memory
outside of this initial setup.
Let me answer this quick question from
chat. training robots to perform a
specific task in robotics. Incredibly
time consuming puffer li be used robot
absolutely. So gosh the only thing is
that um I am not deeply embedded in
robotics. You absolutely can use puffer
liib for this and uh puffer liib is very
good for RL generally. I've not taken
the time to like chuck it at standard
robotics m or sims or frameworks and
speed optimize frilly, but it is a thing
you can do and we have a few people in
the community who have done that as well
already.
Here we have some logic for the
environment. So the cool thing about
writing your environments in C is you
can just write arbitrary code. It's not
like it's not like a framework, right?
It's not like you're writing a Jax
environment where you have to express
everything in terms of very specific
operations. Um, you just write arbitrary
code. So here, this is goal setting
code. Look, I can write a double for
loop and it's fast because C is fast and
you're allowed to write loops. And then
the logic is actually really simple for
this piece of the code because that's
all I do. Um,
you'll notice a couple things here. So
this is the where is it?
We've got some logging aggregation here.
So uh every time the puffer gets a star,
it gets a point. So we increase score,
we increase episode length, we update
all our log metrics,
and then we also increment this n. Imple
incrementing this n is very important
because this needs to contain the number
of log elements usually the number of
trajectories.
Okay, we have our compute observations
code. So similarly we just write
arbitrary loops. So in this case the
observation each agent gets an obs. Each
agent has the same obs. Here's the
agent. You go through all of the goals,
right? You go through all the different
goals and you give it the position, the
delta position, normalized delta
position to each goal. You go through
all the other agents. You give it the
normalized delta position to each agent.
You give it its normalized heading
reward within the height of the
environment. And that is your
observation function. Nice, short, and
simple. You can view the code for this
project. I will put it in the chat so
you can follow along.
target.
Uh, for some reason my chat does not
want to load.
Let me go open up the YouTube.
It's probably going to not let me link
that, right?
the chat.
Yeah, it's going to eat that message.
Hang on.
Oops.
Surely it lets me link in my own chat,
right? Yeah, there we go. It lets me
link in my own chat.
There's your link.
Okay,
so that's the compute observations
function.
Resetting environment, we simply
randomize the agents position.
We like to domain randomize whenever we
can. We set a couple other properties.
We randomize the goals. We call the
compute observations. That's it.
We have a couple helpers like clipping.
Hey Nicholas, when's your next rep?
I am super burnt from all the exercise
yesterday, but I'm probably going to
start some shoulder work after this
little demo.
Uh, okay. Here is Cstep. This is the
required step function. So, for
multi-agent, you see we go over all the
different agents.
We always zero out the reward. This is
very important that you remember to zero
out buffers. This does not get done for
you.
And then the agent, this agent, we
update this tick. We update the
positions, heading, speed. So we just do
the basic physics here, if you can
really call it physics.
And then once in a while, just to make
sure that we don't get all the agents
stuck, we randomly reset them or we
randomly move them around.
We call update goals. We call compute
observations. That is it. That is all
the logic for this environment. Now,
you'd also like to be able to render
this environment. And you have one
screen, yeah, one screen worth of
rendering code to do that.
So, if the if there isn't a client, we
make a client.
We load in a couple of textures.
Standard escape.
Ray lets uh has this begin drawing
command that you do everything inside
of. You clear the background and then we
just draw textures for all the goals and
then we draw textures for all the
puffers and we flip them based on the
direction that they're traveling in.
That's it. And then close freeze all the
data so that you do not leak memory. Lo
and behold, everybody says, "Oh, see
memory management." Well, it's not that
hard. That's all it is.
Code is in theh file. Why is that? Good
question. So it is in theh file
because
this gets included from Python.
It's this is kind of like having a
header only library nick if you will.
But the the uh the thing that actually
gets included in Python is this binding
C. And this binding C takes the source
code from your.h H. And it also takes
the source code from our like general
purpose binding glue file here and it
merges these two together. And then the
C. There actually is a C file.
I'll show you the C file. One screen.
This is the C file. And the purpose of
this C file is actually only for
development.
So if I do scripts build ocean target
and I do local, this is a debug build.
So this will give me, you know, address
sanitizer, all that like all the type of
stuff you'd want for uh development. So
you're not constantly going back and
forth through Python while you're
building your environment. And then when
I run /target, this is not running
Python at all. This is only running the
CU build. So how are the puffers doing
all this stuff if they're running the C
build, right? How do they have a neural
network? Well, you don't have to do
this, but because we like to show off
and because we like to put stuff on our
website, I wrote a little miniature
version of PyTorch and C. And you uh can
load in trained weights into this.
We have some pre-trained weights right
here. And then there's this little extra
call here where we are running the
neural net in pure C so that we can have
this nice demo. But you don't have to
have this neural net in. You can just
use random actions for development and
this is already a great way to debug
your code.
Use Vim how to learn that fast. It's
very simple. The thing is you only need
to know like 10 shortcuts, not even
before it's faster than your standard
editor.
Do you run it in web assembly? Yes, I
do. So I showed you this running
locally. But if I go to puffer ocean,
here's target running in web assembly.
There's no additional code for this,
right? This is just compiled for to
wasum and uh now you have the demo
running on the website.
So this is another perk of this, right?
You get your nice local version and
compile the web assembly
and you get to share all your demos.
And that truly is everything that is
associated with this this whole
tutorial. When I went to write this
thing, I think it took me maybe three 3
to four hours from deciding I want to
make this environment to having built
the environment, having trained agents
and tested it and having this thing
ready to go.
And now this thing like runs tens of
millions of steps per second. It trains
at millions of steps per second.
And now you can just do reinforcement
learning really fast.
So, for folks watching, the idea of
this, if you got here partway through,
is uh I have a lab that has asked me to
do a little environment tutorial for
them on how to build environments. I
thought I'd take the opportunity to do
it live so that if anybody has questions
or things are not clear, you can ask me
here now and then I will use that to
improve upon both that thing for the lab
on Wednesday, but also for the uh
teaching materials for Puffer Lib in
general.
So, we have plenty of folks on YouTube
that there should be uh at least a
couple people with questions in the
chat.
Why don't you all think about if there's
anything that you want to ask while I go
do my first set of shoulder presses?
Is it impossible to make a Python
library
run this fast?
Yes, you're not going to get Python to
run this fast.
So,
Aside from it being interpreted,
let me just show you the junk.
Have you ever seen the Python C API?
This is what everything looks like in
the Python C API.
It's like
get item type check.
It's like there's this huge amount of
extra garbage on top of every single
operation
and there's a garbage collector.
Not to mention it's interpreted. It's
it's fundamentally a very slow language.
You can go check for yourself just like
write some basic loop in Python and then
write the same thing and see.
You'll see it's like at least 100x
faster in C.
Like often times people underestimate
how slow Python is compared to C,
believe it or not.
Presumably
that's um Have you tried Mojo?
No. And
I saw a few things about the language I
really didn't like
for starters.
But then also like there's just no point
in trying to do all your whole big open
source project in like an some esoteric
language that nobody uses.
What's the difference between writing
your NFU and in petting zoo? Sure. So
you can use puffer li with a petting zoo
environment but you have to do this.
Petting zoo is actually a terrible
library for performance reasons.
Uh where is it?
So we have this emulation thing for
working with petting zoo environments
and gymnasium environments.
This is just applied on top of your M to
make it compatible with puffer. Let me
see if I can find you the problem.
It's kind of this stuff down here.
Get you a better version of this.
Yeah. So the problem with petting zoo is
that the observation it's a dictionary
format and dictionaries are slow.
Like literally if you were to just do
the dictionary operations
of like packing and unpacking
observations in Python, not even running
the neural nets, you'd be slower than
paplib.
So petting zoo has this dictionary
format. Puffer lib has a vector format.
So puffer lib is kind of like a
gymnasium vector enth which you can do
that for multi-agent and single agent in
the same API and it's fast whereas
petting zoo is this really flexible
thing but nobody actually uses all of
its features and that flexible thing
makes it unusably slow. Like you
actually just can't use it.
So this is the puffer env uh
environment. By the way, this is the
entire puffer enf code. Like it's just a
spec. There's nothing to it, right?
And all this thing has is a few checks
to prevent you from shooting yourself in
the foot too badly. And then this set
buffers command. And all this set
buffers command does is like if you
don't give it a buffer, it allocates a
bunch of memory for you to write all
your observations in without having to
like keep allocating memory over and
over again. And otherwise, it just sets
it to whatever you give it. And that's
the entire thing that the puffer m does.
Now the cool thing about this right is
that this buffer here I can actually
pass in a slice of shared memory to this
and then puffer lib runs everything
entirely in sh in shared memory.
So it's not that it's incredibly
complicated
but this is just such a fundamentally
higher performance design. It's not even
close.
So to make an M view have to know C
basically.
Yeah, you can run emulation on it. So
here
what is like
what are some examples of this? We have
a couple in puffer liib somewhere but I
have it on the docs page.
here wrapping a multi- aent petting zoo
environment.
So here's a petting zoo environment,
right?
Parallel enth. You literally just call
puffer lib emulation petting zoo puffer
n and now you can use it but it doesn't
magic like it doesn't magically make it
faster than the original end, right?
So like you're still limited by the
petting zoo API when you do this. Puffer
lib can make the other portions fast but
it can't make your env fast as if it
were a native C.
But I mean if you saw my native C right
like this is not hard
like literally this is this is simpler
code than you will be given in your
assignments in your first systems course
as a freshman in undergrad.
Like this is really really simple code.
And the crazy thing is how well this
scales like if you actually take the
time I'm not going to go through it all
now but if you just take the time to
read through neural MMO 3 which is the
most complicated envir and arguably one
of the most complicated RL environments
out there in use in research. Like yeah
it's longer. It's 3,000 lines but guess
what? This is a third of the amount of
code that neural MMO 2 had. And neural
MMO2 was in Python. And this thing is at
least 500 times faster than neural MMO
2. And if you actually read it, it's
like really basic stuff. Like this is
literally just like if statements and
for loops all the way down. Just really
simple loops and branching logic. No
abstraction. Top to bottom. How you
write a game in the simplest way
possible.
I would argue that doing this is way
more accessible than trying to teach
somebody how to like build a project of
this scale in a language like Python and
then not having it be unusably slow
because of speed. Cuz trying to get an
actually even remotely usable amount of
speed out of Python is way harder than
just writing really naive C.
And the only other option you have I'm
going to just go to a random line number
here.
I'm going to go to a random line number.
All right. This is what the code looks
like. The only other option is JS.
I'm just going to go to a random line
number in in uh in JS.
You can see it's literally like
All right.
Uh this is a wrapper. Where's the actual
end code?
It's already more complicated than my
thing.
Nope, not this. Where the heck is the
logic?
Oh, there.
Okay. So, if I just jump to a random
line in here,
which of these is simpler?
So, Neuralarm MMO is faster than Craft X
by an order of magnitude. We're pretty
similar game dynamics. Actually, ours
may be even a little more complicated.
Which is more simpler? Like, which is
simpler? I have basic loops or I have
literally Jack's calls to even do a
freaking ore.
Everything is array operations.
Like, which of these would you rather
have to write?
So that's the only other option
and mine's still faster.
Do you support parameter sharing and
independent
and
parameter sharing and independent
networks? Parameter sharing is by
default you'd have to write just a uh a
network wrapper if you wanted to do
independent nets. We kind of just do
everything with shared params by
default. But again, so if you want to
look at the complexity of hacking on
stuff with puffer lib, this is our
trainer file.
So our entire trainer is 1,200 lines and
that's including uh that's including
like our dashboard, that's including
hyperparameter uh integrations and
everything. So it's just this one file
is the training algorithm. So you're
free to mess with this all you want,
right?
And actually the the the real training
code of this ends right
here. It's really only the first 500
lines is the real training code. And
then the rest of this is like
checkpointing and then the dashboard and
then like uh all these extra like
profiling stuff and utilization yada
yada.
So
it's maybe like twice the complexity of
clean RL or over a hundred times the
performance and still way way less than
the complexity of even something like
SP3
would jack scale. I thought it to run on
GPU or TPU and would win at some point.
Well, no, because if you have eight GPUs
on your machine and you're running your
environment at 100,000 steps per second
per GPU, which is what it runs at, then
you have 800,000 steps per second. And
that and that leaves you nothing left
over to run the neural nets. Whereas
neural MMO will run over 800,000 steps
per second on one CPU core. And if you
have a machine that has some GPUs on it,
that machine also has some CPU cores on
it. So you get to run your ENV at 1.5
million steps per second and you still
have all your GPU capacity free. So
presumably, right, when you have an 8GPU
node, you're going to have at least 32
cores. So you've got at least four or
six cores per GPU as well.
So it really doesn't even scale any
better necessarily.
How long does it take someone with no RL
experience to get all caught up on
Puffer Lib? If you have reasonable
engine experience and have done any
amount, literally any amount of
low-level dev at all, uh you'll be able
to build a new environment to play
within a weekend or less.
For building like reasonably complex
stuff, give it a couple weeks tops.
Yep. Environment runs on CPU. Agent runs
on GPU.
Oh, and by the way, I actually am
thinking we're going to do GPU
environments pretty soon for the heck of
it. Do you know how easy that's going to
be? I'm basically going to just copy and
paste the code into a CUDA kernel and
it's going to run on GPU.
There's like a little bit of refactoring
I have to do, but not that much because
CUDA is basically just C that runs on
GPU.
And if you want to parallelize naively,
you can just literally put one
environment on each CUDA core.
So even if you want to do stuff on GPU,
I still wouldn't do jacks.
I thought it would have been more
involved. Here's some CUDA code.
We have our our um advantage kernel.
This is the puffer lib CUDA, right? This
is our advantage kernel. And if we just
ignore the two tags right here,
this is literally C.
So your CUDA code is literally just C,
right? And then actually it gets called
right here. So this is the CUDA kernel
itself. All you have to do is squint and
ignore the fact that you get this extra
block idx thing that specifies the row
and then this little global tag and then
this is also C.
So literally you're just doing C
first E to C textbook.
I've never read a C textbook. I wrote
Python for 10 years. It's just not as
hard as you think. Do you know what a
pointer is? You know what Malik does?
Cool. You know enough C.
No point in learning to code anymore
because AI can do everything. Uh, can't
sleep at night. Yeah. So, those people
are [__] [__] those people. Go
learn to build stuff.
Those people are like stupid and
worthless.
Go learn things and go build cool stuff.
And stop scrolling your X feed so much.
It'll drive you crazy.
I mean, AI is kind of worthless in my
day-to-day for the most part. So, no,
it's being massively overexaggerated how
good this stuff is because lo and
behold, companies are making billions of
dollars by overexaggerating how good
their stuff is. How long does it take to
learn C to build an N? It depends,
Nicholas. Did you ever see any amount of
low-level programming, even like in like
a random intro undergrad course,
or do you like or do you not know what a
pointer is?
All I know is Python.
Okay. Whoever the heck taught you, like
wherever you learn the programming, that
is criminal that they don't teach you
any low-level dev at all. You have a
little bit of learning to do. You
probably are going to have to watch like
maybe a handful of systems lectures on
YouTube, but like it's probably a few
hours of content at most.
You pretty much just have to understand
that like Python is not actually how
your computer works, right?
Like Python is a very highlevel language
and you need to understand at least a
little bit about how your computer
works, right? Like the stuff that you
have actually corresponds to addresses
in memory that are written in bytes
contiguous or non-ontiguous. You
actually have to allocate a chunk of
memory to write your bytes into. But
like once you understand the very very
basics of this,
then it really doesn't take very long.
Like I honestly think that you could be
comfortable with this stuff in like a
couple weeks.
Yeah. Seriously. Gosh, it's like I
really really hate the people that are
like, "Oh, like ah yes, actually we've
have this awesome new technology, right?
We have like these awesome innovations
in AI, but I can't think of how that's
going to make the world better in any
way because I'm an idiot. So, I'm just
going to go around saying, "Oh,
actually, nobody needs to learn to think
anymore. The AI is just going to think
for us and you're not going to have jobs
and life's going to be awful." I hate
those people.
CS50 on YouTube.
Is that MIT or Harvard?
I will say don't don't watch uh the
Stamford systems courses. The Stamford
systems courses were so bad I took them
in person. They were so bad that they
put me off of systems dev for a decade.
I don't think I can give a like I don't
think it's possible for me to give a
more damning review of the uh Stanford
Systems Corps than that.
It was awful.
And like I hated my lecturers so much as
well that I literally thought that
systems programmers were just [__]
and losers for a decade as well. It was
that bad.
Harvard.
The Harvard students actually know how
to code at all.
Probably the MIT lectures are up
somewhere, right?
What would be your guide to learn C
then?
I mean, you can literally look this
stuff up. Like, it's not that much
material is the thing.
I actually don't, you know, I actually
need to I should go ask some people in
the puffer discord if they have a
favorite resource for this. I'm not
really big on courses unless they're
extremely well taught. Um,
and you really don't need a whole course
on C either,
like for learning the basics of stuff.
H,
so Nick, that works for the most basic
stuff possible. I've actually had very
bad results trying to use language
models to learn anything other than the
standard basics of a thing though.
Welcome, Alien.
Do folks have any other questions though
on the uh the little N tutorial I went
through?
Cuz if not, I'm kind of feeling better
and I don't think I have any replies.
Yeah, I don't have any replies yet on
this meta stuff. So, I could do the
dashboard. I could do. There are a whole
bunch of different things I can do at
the moment. That would be interesting.
You're right about that, Nick. You can
at least just ask a language model what
a pointer is and [__] Probably give you
a decent one.
David Milan,
is that um is that CS50?
If it's decent, then sure.
Actually, the intro, so the very very
intro Stamford course wasn't awful, I
guess.
It was pretty bad though.
CS 107 is the Stamford one.
Wasn't awful, but it really wasn't good
either.
I mean honestly what happened with me is
I like saw that material when I was 18
right and then I went and I did research
in science and I wrote Python for a
decade and then I actually cared about
trying to get better as an engineer the
entire time I just didn't realize how
much I was screwing myself by just
writing Python
and then I started writing C and within
a couple of weeks I was just totally
comfortable with it, right? Like it
wasn't that big of a shift for me
because it just made sense having
written code for that long. You know,
there were like only a couple things I
remember being really annoying to get
used to.
Like the uh things getting passed by
value by default that was really
annoying to get used to and now it's
just whatever.
Oh, the other big complaint I have about
a lot of these courses is they give you
starter code for [__] right? Like they
give you this big block of starter code
for your assignments and they have you
fill in little snippets of stuff
relating to your lectures and that is
not a good way to learn to program. Like
a good way to learn to program is like,
"Hey, go build Pong,
right? Like go build me a Pong game.
You'll be graded on how good it is. Go
do it." No starter code.
Hint, use Ray Lib for rendering. Don't
use anything else.
That's a good assignment.
Okay, I'm trying to think what I want to
do now. So,
there are a few different ways we could
go at the moment. Um,
we have the
Let me go check my email real quick
first off screen so I'm not missing any
client obligations.
Doesn't look like I have anything
cool.
BRB building pong.
I mean, but the funny thing is how it's
like such a very it's such a small shift
from building Pong now to
having RL that also plays Pong for you,
right?
Like this was not a thing
before.
But this just works now.
And it literally you train the RL for
this trains in 3 seconds.
3 seconds.
I'm trying to think if I just want to do
a little work on the dashboard today.
That's probably the most chill thing to
do, right? Is just do a little bit of
work on the dashboard.
Maybe we have some new people in here
who haven't seen this, but this has been
my latest project. This whole thing is
in C. Um, high performance
visualizations
for large quantities of RL experiments.
I built pretty much all of this over the
uh
over the weekend on stream.
Oh, this is the wrong version of it
though, isn't it?
There we go.
Looks a little better.
What do we have left to do on this
realistically?
So,
in order to finish this project,
Uh UI styling
we have to fix
uh tick
layout
clean up code.
Oh yeah, there's like this there's one
more feature
secret
feature
color scheme for points
and then possibly
a cool shader.
That's pretty much it.
Get some inspiration from the website.
Let's try a couple different color
schemes
of the points. We'll just do some chill
stuff for a bit cuz I have to do it
anyways. And uh
when I do like a really long and hard
work day where I'm like
cuz it's not just like oh I get up in
the morning I think I'm going to work 12
hours like uh 12 straight hours of
stream today, right? I kind of prep that
stuff like I kind of arrange everything
around just like being fully focused
that day. So it really feels like I'm um
I kind of burn myself out quite a bit
doing that. But I end up getting like a
week's worth of work done in one session
when I do. So, kind of still feeling a
little bit tired from that.
What kind of food do I eat with that
work and exercise regime?
Um
just generally like variety of
relatively healthy stuff
mostly like just
some amount of vegetable not a ton like
balanced enough I don't know what do you
call that I have a protein shake every
day at the least that has enough in it.
Um
I'm having meat with well you say meat
with every meal. I'm having protein with
every meal at least. I guess breakfast
these days I'm just having a protein
shake with. But generally like a
goodized chunk of meat for dinner.
I only I typically only eat two meals a
day. I ate a third meal yesterday
because I was literally just lifting
weights all day.
The only thing that I have to do that's
different from most people is um
I have I end up having to have like
pretty high calorie density in a lot of
my food cuz I do not have the appetite
to eat like you know 25 to 3,000
calories a day worth of like lean
protein and rice and stuff. That's just
too much volume of food. I have like
heavy sauces and stuff.
I mean, heck, even after the lifting, I
still I got up this morning and I ran my
uh not quite a 10k. It's like 5.7 miles
is the uh the loop I have around here.
Ooh.
The problem is the dark shades, right?
You really can't see with the dark
shades.
You really only get like two or three.
Yeah, I can't actually tell these apart
at all. Right.
So, it's a cool twocolor scheme, but
like
you can't really just do shades when you
have this many different points. And I
tried the divergent palette as well, and
that didn't work either.
Let's
Save.
The problem is how many different
I just have so many different tracks on
the same plot. Right?
Is that I don't think I'm doing it wrong
to be doing it that way though. Right.
So this is Where's my original plot?
All
right. So, this was the
Oops.
This was the original plot.
This spinning graph is covered by Cammy.
I'll show it. My bad. But this was the
original plot, right? So, here the thing
is I have 12 different tracks and you
can very clearly see them separately,
right? Here
you can't see it.
And then even if I do
even if I do this.
Oops.
Like you can mostly see it, right?
Well, I mean, I can take out a couple of
these colors, right? I like the dark
brown and the gray.
This is already aggregated, man. There's
like
This is already aggregated.
Is it just me? It looks less clear,
right? Because Is it cuz it's getting
stretched?
It looks like less clear.
Oh, actually, you know what? It doesn't
really look that clear here now that I
have this many plots on it either,
right? I guess there are like some
colors that stick out.
So each color is a different
environment.
You're generally trying to just see the
shape of the uh environment curve on
this.
You know, I should probably just copy
paste this UI here.
I should probably just take this UI and
put it here, right?
Because you can't fit good curves to
this stuff, man.
It's like there's surfaces and it's very
hard to fit like nice surfaces to this.
I tried.
Let me see if I just What happens if I
put this UI there though?
I think that much I can handle, right?
The heck is wrong with this?
Why is everything highlighted? What the
the [__]
Uh, hello.
Okay, I don't know what's wrong with
this terminal, but you can go away now.
Oh, you think IDEs don't crash randomly
for no reason?
news for you, buddy. And maybe a bridge
to sell you.
Let's just do
try something
big.
has this super obnoxious thing
attached to
Yeah. Yeah, I know.
like this.
So figure
figure two ends up actually having
almost identical params.
We do
No J here, right? Why the heck do I use
J?
So, I know that this is a mess at the
moment. Basically what I'm doing here is
I'm trying to get the dashboard to look
right and then I'm going to identify the
pieces of code that like I can uh
duplicate out.
Okay.
And then we have to copy the buttons.
Uh which should not be
is it literally identical?
One, two, three.
Uh, it's almost identical. There's one
extra there's one extra button that's
not there before, right? Which is the Z.
So, it's N XYZ color.
Still think that that's probably
probably the easiest thing is if we just
copy this
this whole chunk
stick this
Okay. So between these two
we need
this goes to here. Now this needs to be
the Z,
right?
And this is three.
There's two.
Okay, that's good.
And this one as well.
This is four.
See?
All right. And now all I have to do
this is now these go up by one each.
Other one each, right?
Four and three.
What do I do here? Oh, dummy. Um, hang
on.
Yes.
XY
wait X Y Z and color perfect right this
is everything
uh this
ah
kind of cool
breakout colored by agent steps Right.
That's pretty sweet looking.
We can color by M name and do all. We
can do like this is 2048 by agent steps.
Can also do by like stuff like gamma and
see if we see any correlations in there.
Right.
So I can do all of them but now they're
colored by learning rate.
Are they colored by learning rate? That
seems suspicious.
No, that is actually
Is that actually colored by learning
rate?
Maybe.
I don't think it's colored properly.
Exactly. But it's decent enough.
There'll be some small fixes to be made.
At least we now have a few different
things we can do with it, right?
How do you do the color fading?
Um, so I drew them with opacity.
And if you want to do it the way that I
did, there's this one annoying thing you
have to do for offscreen buffers.
Let me see if I can remember where it
is. Uh,
yeah. This thing you have to do this
blend mode [__]
It's actually kind of irritating to have
this color palette for stuff like this,
right?
Well, I guess we may as well just figure
out how to clean up a little bit of this
mess and then it'll get easier to make
this better.
Use the restroom real quick and get
another set in.
Man, I'm just tired today. Holy.
Be right back.
Hey K
non sweep related PR
Look,
which one?
334.
Oh, okay. This is a while ago. Let's
see.
Okay.
Wait.
Are you sure this is right?
Okay, this got moved up to here.
I thought this was a config PR.
There's a bunch of stuff in here, some
of which seems a little sketchy.
But this looks like it deleted the train
copy measurement entirely. No.
Okay. Here's the actual PR.
Wait, what?
I'm trying to see what this even does.
This is a kind of a messy PR.
different file not under the default
directory.
Yeah, and that would be useful.
I want to add custom tags. I would like
that feature. Kung,
can you clean this up though?
Like I can't tell.
It seems like there are now multiple
functions.
You should basically just be able to
have it look in the
It should just be able to also look in
the current directory, right?
Like, wait, why is there Why is there so
much stuff around this? Shouldn't it
just be like an additional check to look
in the current directory, not just the
puffer configur?
This user account need what?
I have no idea what that question is.
Yeah, sure. Discord, I can do that.
Oh, yeah, sure. Discord. Am I listening
to my own voice here now?
I'm listening to my own voice from
somewhere.
There.
Hey.
Hey, Kong.
>> Hey, Joseph.
>> How's it going? Long time no see. Kind
of long time no see.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
>> I've just been building all this crazy
new stuff. Have you seen the new vid?
You've seen the new visualizer.
>> Yeah. Just seen from the screen. It
looks cool.
>> I mean, all sorts of crazy.
>> Like I said, you are making like one dB
off of it.
Ah, I I like to be the shock cavalry of
RL. It's fun.
>> I know. Yeah.
>> So, I'm way behind on merging stuff.
Like, I've basically gotten stuck into
research and I've gotten way way behind
on merging in not just like fixes, but
also new environments and all sorts of
stuff. But I'm happy to get this config
thing merged in as long as it's not
going to cause me like a bunch of
problems from a broken build that I
figure like that I learned has been
broken in two weeks. Um
>> uh yeah. So so basically like uh it this
will make the current workflow uh work
as is. So like
>> so
>> like how there's a first of all there's
a ton of stuff in here
>> where
like it like unrelated to config that
I'm sketched about because it looks like
this deletes the train misk profiling or
no the train copy profiling completely.
>> No, it doesn't. I I add another one
right there. So
>> Oh, wait. Okay, I'm dumb. I see it.
>> But wait, was there no train copy right
here? This is deleted. Oh, no. It's
here.
>> No, it's copied. I just put the nest
flag up there.
>> Okay.
>> Because that that nesting somehow like
my MISK profile got like added up and
somehow. So
>> yeah, once there's a more mini batch it
gets nested, right? So
>> all right, let me see everything here
because I think you have a bunch of
changes in here. Some of which are
actually fine. So this is this is just
example. This is fine. example that that
I there like I'm loading config and like
trying to like set other things and like
passing it to uh making pen van policy.
>> Yeah, this
that I
>> I think it's because it breaks compile
man.
>> I think this breaks torch compile.
>> I see. So uh like yeah th those stuff I
stole from David's PR like uh which also
he has made like a hover core but yeah
>> yeah but David breaks stuff all the time
too.
>> I see. So like since I'm not like
testing compile so yeah I will have
those back.
>> I'm pretty sure this I'm pretty sure
this breaks compile. Um,
>> okay. Yeah,
>> compute puppet. So, yeah, this is
everybody's asked me about this thing.
Um, so basically this was I'm pretty
sure this was an error like the fact
that I had this, but I didn't change
this cuz this could change algo
performance and I didn't run training on
like a bunch of M's before and after. I
guess I can technically keep this. I can
keep your PR in and it's probably fine
because people have been asking about
it. It's not exactly good science but
sure.
>> Um,
>> right after you are just changing it.
>> I realize so that was a bug right the
fact like that was a bug but then when I
wrote 3 and I did all the benchmarks for
300 I had that bug in there. So like
ideally I'd want to go rerun everything.
So I didn't want to like push something
that could change algorithm performance
right without rerunning a bunch of
tests. It's probably fine. Um, so I can
leave it. It's like it's probably fine.
But that's why I didn't do that change
before.
Um,
>> yeah, I know. But now now you are going
to run another like a sweep.
>> Yeah, I'm going to run more sweep, but
it's going to take me like at least a
couple months if not more for Puffer 4,
right? Where I'm going to do all the new
stuff.
>> Yeah, I I know. and and that's why I'm
also looking at like sweep itself like
trying to make it like faster.
>> So I have one thing that does make it
faster as well. Uh I have in the multis
sweep branch I have it so that you get
like five suggestions at a time or
whatever instead of just one.
>> Um
>> Mhm.
>> But I think that there are additional
Perf changes I'm going to want to merge
in as well.
>> Perf is actually a big thing in the new
the new puffer as well. Like there's
going to be a big chunk of time I'm
allocating to Perf. I think we can get
Puffer
>> uh well well over 20 million steps per
second.
>> Honestly, I think I could make a fun
demo that gets to 100 mil.
>> That would be awesome. I I mean like
just testing stuff got much easier with
the ocean. Yeah. So that's kudos to you.
>> I'm trying. It's a lot like I did this
whole thing. So this is all you see what
I'm trying to do. This is this is 2500
PTO experiments taken from 40,000 total
experiments.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So I'm trying to do like the largest
scale experimental visualization and
analysis ever in RL.
>> Yep.
>> And like obviously you can't do this in
w.
>> Yeah, that's true. That looks so cool.
>> Oh anyway. Yeah, coming back to config.
>> Yeah, I'm looking at it. What?
>> So why why are there multiple functions
>> like why did so much stuff change is my
question. Why is this not like why is
this not as simple as just adding
like this additional directory which is
your user user local directory here?
>> Uh no it's default it's I copy. So that
part uh so so what root config does that
does right now is it merges the the
environ specific ini with the default
>> right
>> and also uh and and then it it makes the
parser too right and then that parser
process like all the configs right
>> yeah so that you get CLI args
Yeah. So, so there like I I broke that
I allowing. So, so the main the config
processing is handled by those uh
process config
and
and I also made that load config file.
So that either the config sits in the
default directory or you can provide the
the custom config file separately and
then uh so and and then it does the
similar thing as above. So
>> all right well I guess you know what
I'll do I'll just merge it. I like I
like the feature. I uh I might want to
have the code be a bit more compressed,
but I like the feature, so I guess I'll
just merge it. And
>> yeah. Yeah. Like I mean config system in
Puffer is I I've been through it like
three or four times, right?
>> Yeah. Well, I mean I want to The thing
is eventually I want to have my train my
whole train file and everything. I want
it to be faster than it is now and under
a thousand lines.
>> Yeah. But but yeah, that's that's the
best I could do so far.
>> That's fine.
>> Yeah,
>> we'll just merge this here. Let me go
grab the browser that's actually logged
in
uh and like sweep related uh the I'm
uh let's see what what name uh
so I'm working with Someone from Discord
buffer discord
>> test before merge please convert I test
before I push a new pip package. Does
that count?
>> Discord as a thread with the sweep
experiment 23k.
Is there a PR for the new sweep changes
as well that you've been working on or
not yet?
>> Uh not yet. Like sweep requires much
more like tests, right? Yes,
>> that one is essential as well. So, I'm
actively doing stuff with this now,
right? With all this multi Have you seen
the multi sweep stuff?
>> No.
>> So, I have multiGPU sweeps and I've been
using them. I've already run like 40,000
experiments on these. Um,
where is it?
It's just in puffer right now.
All right. So, there's the original
sweep, but now there are two others.
There's Parto sweep and there's multis
sweep. So, multi sweep just does uh
let's say you have six GPUs. It'll use
all six GPUs for the same sweep.
So, like one GPU per job and it'll just
queue up new jobs on GPUs as they're
available.
And then parto sweep runs six different
sweeps. Uh it just runs six different
sweeps with different numbers of total
time steps. So you can get like evaluate
sweeps at different sample like number
of samples.
>> So one hyperparameter but like a yeah
different number of oh okay
>> yeah so I mean this is messy and like
obviously can get combined but for dev
this is what I've been using to run.
So these experiments here, these points,
these are only the Pareto optimal points
from 12 different environments. Each of
these at 12 environments has at least
1,200 experiments. So and then some of
them have way more than that. So this is
like 30 40,000 experiments worth of data
here compressed into 2500 PTO optimal
points. And now I have all sorts of
visuals on just the PTO points.
>> Yeah. So uh
>> this is all done with multi sweep and or
parto sweep these two.
>> Okay. Uh so so that's still using a
pyro, right?
>> So like one thing I noticed with pyro.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, pyro.
>> Yeah. The p the
>> the p y the the Gaussian you use for
Gaussian process.
>> Do you have a replacement for that
thing? I hate that library, but I don't
have a replacement for it.
>> So, so the the one thing we've been
testing with Gerro at our discord is
that uh I think GP pietorrch is faster
and uh and pyro does for each regression
like it does like thousand iterations
and you don't need thousand iterations.
It's like uh I'm
>> so I'm looking at like 50 100 or so uh
with different learning rate. So yeah.
Yeah. So we are kind of like doing that.
>> Okay. I mean that would be great. So the
one thing I do have here is I added this
buffer size.
>> Mhm. And when you suggest it actually
goes and it suggests you
where is it? It suggests five like the
top five suggestions.
Mhm. And then what happens is in puffer
liib
uh in puffer liib when I need to get a
new suggestion
puffer lib puff
this is kind of cool
it's kind of cool kind of a hack I guess
but in multi sweep here uh when I need
to get a new suggestion
I think it even just does it for you.
Hang on. Yeah. Yeah. Wait, I forgot I I
literally have it do it for you.
Oops. Suggest.
Yeah. So, it just gets something from
the buffer if there's anything there.
So, like every it'll just retrain every
five or whatever. Now, I think your
thing is better where it should just do
a very short optimization every single
time. Um I actually
>> default. Yeah, I actually think that
this needs to be way way faster though
because like
>> I think that
>> that's what Jerroof uh uh initially
discovered like when you are doing sweep
on like a breakout and so forth just
getting those like hyperparameters.
>> Yeah. It takes forever. It takes most of
the time. It's horrible, right?
>> Yeah. like I'm trying to cut that down
uh while having like similar performance
like so G
>> PyTorch
>> with like uh some uh uh good
hyperparameters will do that initially
>> and like and there are like several
points to to make it better like plus
multi-way but like let's get like step
by step so like trying to replace pyro
with G pytorrch there's some good
hyperparameters seems to be gi.
>> Yeah, GP pytorch.
>> So like uh oh cool you are
>> you are in the the discussion here too.
I will just
>> Yeah, I saw it on the discord. I just
have not been keeping up with a lot of
the stuff. I've just been kind of
cranking on dev.
But but that's that's where like uh
Derof and I'm kind of like uh sharing
results. So yeah, once like we are
confident that like G PyTorch is
comparable and faster then that's a like
a easy win, right?
>> Uh if it's Yeah, if it's compatible and
faster, it's an easy win.
>> So yeah, let's start with that. Uh,
that'll be good. And I actually we're
we're going to need this even more in
the next update because if I do get
training to be 100 million steps a
second then like we absolutely can't be
waiting for sweeps, right?
>> Yeah,
>> I actually think I'm going to be able to
do it. I'm not even joking. Like I think
I'm going to be able to do it.
>> I I know. Yeah, sweep is huge in your
workflow and everyone else. And sweep
itself is also interesting. So it's a
good problem.
>> Sweep is a very very important problem
actually. It's just a hard problem. Um,
I fought with so many things with
protein and it's still like I think it
can still be way better.
>> That's like one of the bigger science
side projects that I would love to just
give to somebody
>> but you know it's it's one of the harder
things where there not that many people
in Puffer that have the ability to do
this type of work.
>> Yeah. So I I think we we started uh so
let's see where it can
>> Yeah. I think definitely to start just
if you make it faster that's already
good. If you do make it faster actually
it gets easier to start doing the um
algorithm ablations right cuz like let's
say that we get pong down to the point
where you can run a whole sweep of Pong
in an hour or less
>> like a 200 run of Pong then actually you
can probably compare different uh
different hyperparameter tuning
variations on Pong or Breakout right
>> and I'll spot you some GPUs for that as
well. Oh, I got a question. Do you ever
plan to add to add sack to Puffarel?
You would have to convince me that it's
not useless. Every time I've tried it,
it's just like super super slow and it
doesn't scale well with more data. So,
yeah, it's technically can be better
sometimes if you don't have much data,
but it's not like even that good even in
that case, and it's always slow. So,
I've not had a good time with that. I
think it's just a bad algorithm and it's
like roboticists have kind of overtuned
to that so that they use it by default a
lot of the time
>> still once you start to work with real
robots and you're worth like Adel then
yeah
>> I will make bigger Sims for you
>> need to
sample efficiency so
>> but it's not even good for it's not even
that good for sample efficiency right
like
>> it's really not even that good for
sample efficiency like then you act then
you start to get to the model based
stuff where things are really obnoxious
to make work but like way more sample
efficient right
>> yeah okay but yeah I I'm like studying
on that side too but yeah let's start
with sweep yeah
>> well the sweep stuff I know actually can
be made to work and will be useful right
the offpaul did you read the bootstrap
article
uh yours.
>> Yeah.
>> Y RL failed to bootstrap.
>> Mhm.
>> So I mean that's like that basically had
all of my thoughts in it,
>> right? This had all of my thoughts on
off Paul verse on Paul verse everything
and like fundamental differences.
Uh yeah. So, so that's like where I
start to look into popular and breed and
the the beauty of bre
is it actually it somehow nicely
combines on policy and no policy right
>> I don't think it actually works very
well though is the thing cuz you can set
puffer to just do vrace without ge and
it's really bad
>> like
>> I think and it's in this article as well
cuz vrace just does important sampling
and all important sampling does is not
use your old data like it just it just
like smooths out and uses your old data
less which is not what you want. You
want something that can use your old
data effectively. But I think basically
that just most of these like semi
offpaul methods are just bad.
>> Okay. But uh yeah, so
>> I actually I will tell you the latest
thing, Chang.
>> I actually have something that I do
think will work, but it requires
simulator side work,
>> which is um state sets.
>> If you build your Sims with state sets
and you want to do go explore style
stuff work, that will actually work
because you can reuse states instead of
reusing samples. So you can get pure on
policy fast data.
>> Uh what state set? So, like being able
to set the state of your simulator, the
go explore,
>> I will I'll have to
>> look at that. I think that that I'm not
willing I'm not ready to do this type of
work just yet cuz I have stuff to do
enough for Puffer 4,
>> but I suspect that that is actually
going to end up being the solution.
>> Yeah, let me take a look. Yeah,
>> that's going to be some
>> last word on the abstract is like
robotics. So that's
>> I it'll work for robotics too. You just
have to build that stuff into your
robotics sim.
>> Yeah. So okay uh uh and one thing like
on the robotic sim side. So like with
the
what's that like a proper PhD we were
>> uh we were using gym there right yeah
and I think gym is finally fading out.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah. have it with like a new lab and
lab and based on like a budoko warp and
so forth. So yeah, it
the the shim is
changing. Yeah.
>> Yeah. I mean definitely and um
well this the reason I haven't gone
heavy into robotics is because it's one
of the areas that actually has
reasonable amounts of investment. So,
like in order for me to actually really
make the sim stuff better, it's not like
other areas where I can just sit down in
an afternoon and just write something
better, which I actually can do half the
time here. Like, it would actually take
a lot of work in robotics to do this
stuff. Um, but I think that you can make
a lot of it like much much better than
it is at the moment.
>> Yeah. So I I think I with the new warp
back end I I think robotics can get up
to like 200 300k easily.
>> Yeah. So that's usable.
>> Yeah, that is usable.
>> So yeah, like that is that is in sight.
So
>> if you want to bind stuff to like if you
want to bind stuff to puffer with this,
you can probably crush some benchmarks
just because nobody else has access to
protein and like tuning and stuff,
right?
>> Yeah. So like I I was playing with BJoko
uh playground and like had to experience
jumps into it.
J was so different.
But but I I hope the like a new budoku
lab uh is is avoiding drugs. So probably
you like play nice with like proper.
>> So I actually I went and ran a perf
benchmark on Jax uh last week just to
see if I've been completely stupid and
like if Jack's compile is just faster
than Torch compile and it's not.
Like in my test torch was faster. Here,
let me give you this. I because I wrote
this last week.
So, I literally don't think there's any
reason to care about jacks at all. Now,
here I have profile torch profile jacks.
And it's just a little test.
>> So, you're free to go see whether you
can like if I've done anything wrong
here. But the torch one was faster than
the jacks one.
Or
>> torch.
Oh, but you know what I found out and
this is I'll tell you this is the uh the
plan for puffer 4 here. You actually
have to compile the whole train loop.
That's the thing.
>> Uh yeah. Yeah. So h that
>> so
>> that's huge.
>> Yeah. And actually so for puffer to make
it like a 100 million steps per second
you actually have to compile the
environment as well I believe.
>> Mhm.
>> Cuz like the environment is in the ford
pass. So I think what I'm going to do is
instead of writing the environments in
Jax, I'm going to take like puffer pong
or whatever I'm just going to copy paste
the code into CUDA and I'm going to see
if I can just get like a full end to end
compiled version of Puffer and then I'll
see you know whether that makes a
difference.
>> Sounds cool. Yeah.
Now end to end compile. Yeah.
>> Yeah. But even when I'm doing that, I
still don't want Jack.
stupid thing.
>> It was Yeah. So different bad.
>> I had hard time understanding it.
>> It's just bad.
I would say different to begin with.
And I I think like one thing like one
more PR that is not mine that like it
would be great for you to have a look
and that's like a AMD path the
>> this thing work
>> where is this
>> uh in the in the PR like that starts
with Yeah, that that one. Hip ROCM.
Yeah,
that looks great. Oh,
>> I didn't realize you can build
wait
ID.
>> So yeah, just uh leave a comment there
and that like let him know like you are
like uh give him some like review and
like
>> Well, I can just work that into it.
>> If this works, I'll just merge it.
Uh
yeah, just I I will ask him in Discord
right now. So,
but yeah, just like uh
getting your attention toward that.
>> Is this a real person by the way?
>> Who?
>> I don't know about elevator guy. I
there's some like weird things that I'm
not sure
yeah
it works.
Oh, is this Wait, is this um sorex in
the chat here?
>> Yeah.
>> Typo build. Okay, yeah, it works. Well,
if this works, then I can just merge
this.
Yeah.
actually. Yeah, I have to say hi to him.
>> Thank you very much.
>> Yeah, he's like uh doing like sweep work
with
>> Yeah, my I'm usually better on merging
PRs. It's the thing is I'm just like I
get super hooked into a specific new
like piece of dev and then you see like
on Saturday I was just literally
building this. So, I like go and do this
stuff for 12 hours and I burn myself out
and then it takes me a while before I
actually get around to doing a whole big
batch of PR reviews.
Anyway, yeah. So, uh I think uh that's
it for me today and uh we will go into
the testing sweep.
>> Hey, I'm looking forward to the sweep
stuff. The sweep stuff will be really
helpful.
>> Yeah, let's get that pyro out of sight.
>> Yeah, that'd be good. I There are like a
bunch of little things about protein
that could have potentially been changed
or messed with as well. The one big
thing that I haven't been able to figure
out, Kyouong was, you know, how there's
this down sample argu uh this down
sample arg.
>> Mhm. So the idea from that is you'd get
like 10 points to represent the train
curve instead of just getting the last
one.
>> Yeah, I thought that was genius.
>> Yeah, it so it's clever except the thing
is if your train curves like let's say
you're running pong, right?
>> Uh and you're running like 8,000 M's or
whatever, then the train curve is
actually going to lag behind a lot
because you don't have accurate evals
and it can actually crash your sweeps if
you're only getting an accurate eval at
the end.
So
>> there's like this little exploit in it
basically and I don't have a good way
around that because it seems to me like
you really don't want just one point per
sweep but like I don't know if there's
some way that we can do like
>> you know for experiments that are below
a certain length or like some way to
determine that.
>> Yeah. So, so one way I'm uh uh I will be
testing is another GP regression for
predicting success or failure and
they're using a like a kind of adaptive
threshold for like score.
>> When you say success or failure, are you
meaning does the run crash or do you
mean like is it solving?
So would would this run be uh so
not just crash but the performance or
well below that it should be so kind of
>> but you have a GP for score already
don't you
>> uh so so there yes but I think like
trying to predict score correctly versus
Would this run be uh below expectation?
That's kind of different question.
>> So like that's one
>> one question like
>> yeah yeah yeah that is so one I like to
like explore there.
>> So my experience with the GPS was just
that they're really noisy, right? So
it's actually my experience with these
is what you want to do is you want to
design your algorithm to have as little
reliance on the GP as possible if that
makes sense. So like I'm kind of only
using the GP to see if it's
directionally correct in some way.
>> Um I honestly like I wish we didn't even
need the GPS but I haven't found any
other model like model that we can use
with this little data.
>> Yeah. So, so, so there like yeah could
be GP or other classification mechan uh
algorithms that is based on
hyperparameters that like would
>> would this uh lead to
>> like somehow uh the score below like
0.05 or something. So
>> you can try that and see if it does.
>> Yeah, I will. Yeah, that's
>> it's very very difficult that I've seen
it's like very very difficult. I mean I
guess you could even do like some linear
fit
>> maybe.
>> Yeah. So so like I've been working with
Breakout but like you are suggesting
Pong is
>> well Breakout's better honestly. Pong's
faster but Breakout's actually better.
So the thing is Pong is too simple. Um
typically what I find is that if
something is good on Breakout it's
generally good on everything. If
something is good on pong, it may or may
not be good on everything.
>> Uh but but for this particular down
sampling like pong has
>> Yes. So pong will show you that down
sample issue for sure.
>> Mhm.
>> Okay. Then what what other environment
that you also suggest for testing?
>> So breakout is decent because you can
get breakout solves under 30 seconds.
>> Um that's decent. We also have the
synthetic benchmark
right there. Like all these synthetic
tests,
>> the the one you like uh started with.
>> Where is it?
In test sweep.
Yeah. So, it's in test sweep
and there's this like little set of
synthetic tasks you can use as a sanity.
I did a lot of development on those
because a lot of the default like sweep
methods will just fail that.
>> Uh and it's like a one parameter fitting
task and a lot of methods will just fail
that.
>> Uh so that's a good sanity.
>> I really wish I knew something better to
do than just the GPS, but I was not able
to find anything better than the GPS. I
actually was tempted to do RL like on
all the different training runs, right?
But like the thing is that you don't
always have the exact same
hyperparameters, right? Like sometimes
you want to add different hypers in
>> and it's also hardware dependent.
>> So like it would be better to not have
to do that.
>> Um
yeah,
>> we're going to get better starting
hypers at the very least. I think that
the goal is we're going to at least have
better starting point hyperparameters
for most environments.
>> Um because what I'm planning on doing
basically is part of this analysis is
going to be figuring out the range of
hyperparameters that like typically work
reasonably well for most environments.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. Uh okay. Uh they the the the
environment. So it had like the test
suit like breakout home and yeah what
else? That's
>> mazes. Puffer grid.
>> Mazes.
>> Mazes is a good one. That's a harder
task. Um yeah, that's a harder a much
harder task and it scales very smoothly.
Actually, you can, believe it or not,
you can kind of tell from the dashboard
which are the good ones because
>> so pretty much the good tasks are the
ones where you actually have some sort
of slope to the points. Here, let me
Where is it?
>> Right.
>> So, when you have some sort of slope to
the points. So, like you see how like
some of these they have like uh here I
got to I have to improve my colors.
So yeah, breakout was pretty steep.
>> So
>> yeah, so breakout is not I here I'll
show you. Where's the stupid? Okay,
here. So
>> and
>> yeah, so breakout here does not scale
well with compute.
>> You see how like steep breakout is.
>> It's basically like you just insta solve
with like this very small difference in
compute. But some of these tasks scale
way better because this is a log scale
access.
>> Uh oh no, Breakout is good actually.
Never mind. Breakout's good. Pong is too
steep. Yeah. Yeah. So, breakout's
actually good. Uh, let's see. Mazes are
good. This grid task is good. Um, where
is it?
>> I think you mentioned
>> 248 is good.
>> 48.
>> Yeah, 2048's right here. You see how
nice that is?
>> It's this dark blue.
>> Uhhuh.
>> So, this is it's shallow, right?
>> Yeah. So that means that it actually you
get more benefit out of cost out of more
cost and more steps and stuff and in
like a very smooth way.
>> And like how how long does it take? Uh
>> uh well I think that I gave most of
these a max of like a few minutes per
run.
>> Okay. So 2084. Okay.
>> 2048. Yeah. And I can also help you set
this up with multiGPU.
>> Uh let me do that later. Yeah, like that
I I'll so like I think the first thing
is to replace a Pyro with G PyTorch and
that will instantly
>> give us like some like benefit of speed.
>> Yeah.
>> And then like after that like I I think
we can try like several stuff.
>> Mhm.
>> That's good.
Cool.
>> Okay, I'll I'll go off and thanks. You
have fun.
>> Thanks. See you.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, I think I missed a question about
SACE, didn't I?
I don't think SAC is better in like any
of those cases. Honestly, you can look
at some of the tasks that we have on
uh on Puffer and like on the website and
you can see that we're solving some
pretty hard problems that have very
sparse rewards.
Pie torch. Well, uh actually, so you can
run Pyro on GPU as well, but I found it
was slower for some reason a lot of the
time.
after the hundth run. Okay, maybe that's
what it was. Maybe that it was slower
first.
I'd be happy to have that though.
answered what question.
Oh, wait. Hang on. Damn it. Where's the
chat?
Question went off screen.
Uh, I think that I missed a question and
I can't see it. You can ask it again if
you'd like. I'm going to use a restroom
real quick. I'm going to um get another
quick set in.
And
yeah, I guess we continue on this stuff.
If you could have a few sets of hypers
that get along.
Yeah, but you actually have to really
understand how everything scales
together for that.
and it's kind of tricky.
So, ideally, you do stuff like muy or
whatever to make some of the hypers at
least a little less fiddly. Like, if you
could make learning rate less fiddly,
that would help a ton. I think that
there's some room for some studying of
how like gamma changes because there's
some scaling to gamma. Yeah, mu mu mu p.
It's like mu the symbol and p if you
look that up. It hasn't really been done
a lot for RL. It kind of works, but
you'd have to integrate it with um our
muon and test it. Yeah, that would help.
But it doesn't help everything.
It doesn't help everything.
Here's the restroom. Get a couple sets
in. And then uh I think what we'll do is
yeah, we'll get to the actual
cleaning up of this of the sea. We'll
fix more things here.
I don't know how the hell it's already
2:30. I've just been moving slow today.
Er,
I don't know what I'm supposed to do if
my shoulder is still going to complain
when I put like just 100 pounds on it.
I don't know what the heck happened over
the weekend. Like, I just posted a
couple random things and they both kind
of blew up.
Like, why the heck does this tweet have
200,000 like 230,000 views?
They're ridiculous.
Actually, wait. I wonder if that
qualifies me for uh was I pretty close
to getting
qualified for the the premium stuff.
Nope.
Dang. That's okay.
No wheel on books for me.
All right. So, how do we get the uh this
code to be less of a freaking mess?
Why does it show my gamer tag from 2008?
Had a productive day. Got OD physics
working.
Oh, cool.
Welcome FBR.
That's a super 2008 gamer tag. My god.
It's all right. I had a I had a buddy in
high school who had an um like an
account with the username xx nom nom xxx
X.
Yeah, but typically you just like pick
your normal name and then add some
numbers.
That's why I have Juarez 5341
everywhere, Right.
It's actually super annoying to think of
how to compress all this crap a bit,
right?
I guess um
just do
Oops.
Let's see.
Yeah.
One second.
Yay! I got plates.
It's actually kind of annoying to figure
out how to shorten this, isn't it?
Oops.
Let's see what happened here.
This
options.
X index
active, right?
Oh, it needs the pointer, doesn't it?
Wait, doesn't it need the
Oh,
it needs this
reference.
So, it needs this whole like if
Yeah, it needs this like whole mess,
right?
Don't know.
Am I doing something really dumb?
selection
active.
Seems fine though.
That seems weird, doesn't it?
Yeah, I see nothing wrong with that.
Ah, I see it, dummy.
Why do I not get a
should get a Well, maybe I did get a
warning and just ignored it. Honestly,
I probably that's I probably should just
fixed all the warnings.
Yeah, that's totally what happened,
right?
Okay,
so we get agent steps
bust.
What's up with this log thing being
weird?
It works. All right. And so there's our
UI thingy.
Right now what I can do is I can finally
do
like this. Log Y
log Z
with height.
And really you just need the um
X and Y, right?
So we can just do drop down width zero
like this.
Yeah, we can just do it like this,
right?
X and Y.
Just do X Y.
This
Yeah,
this is X
Y
up down with
cost.
Okay, so I actually I have this working.
This is way shorter.
And all I have to do is figure out
There's still some stuff I can do from
here, but this is at least something,
right?
That's at least something.
Now, I'd love to compress this big chunk
of nonsense,
right? This giant chunk of nonsense
right here.
That's eight.
I knew this, right? You can return a
static array, can't you?
Know why you wouldn't be able to. You
should totally be able to do this,
right?
Oh, but you can't. That's kind of
awkward, right?
Like you can get the threshold, but you
can't actually filter.
That's super awkward.
I guess we can start by getting the
thresholds at least.
Yep, that's good.
All
right. So, now we have our buckets.
Big one. Envindex,
one color index.
Okay, so there are the buckets.
H.
Okay. But like the obnoxious thing with
this, right?
Like the super obnoxious thing about
this.
This is irritating me.
All right, we're going to chill out and
think about this for a little bit.
Got one more cup of coffee to go get as
well. I'll be right back.
Fix that.
I know what I'm going to do.
Mute this
some music on and let's see if I can
Let's see if I can just actually get
myself
It's like three, right? Let's see if I
can actually get a couple solid hours
out of myself on this.
Let's see. I think I ought to be able
to.
I'm feeling better. I think I just had a
really slow start today
because um
I mean obviously
I did coding marathon on Saturday and
lifting marathon on day.
Okay,
first things first.
We need a way to handle filtering in
general.
It's annoying because it's in the draw
loop, right?
I could do the color as scaling into the
bucketing.
Yeah, that can just be a straight C map,
right?
Filter one. Filter to
see a map.
Done.
Except
does that work?
Yes, that actually does work, doesn't
it? Because you're only ever drawing one
track per call,
which is the correct way to do it
anyways.
I'm happy with that.
I think that's not terribly gross,
right? To just have like
Oh, you can combine filters, dummy.
filter cap. That's actually super
awesome.
Yeah. No, I got it. I know how we're
doing this [__]
I need to get myself um a pallet first,
right?
Yeah, let's get it.
best way of doing it.
It's Java. What the hell is this?
Uh, this is totally a Grock thing, isn't
it?
That's actually solid. Look at that.
So now I got to get how to do uh filter.
Oh, and filter is allowed to be null,
right?
Yeah. Even better. Watch this.
So I can have the pointer be null.
Welcome Leon. Would you be okay merging?
Didn't I already do that, dude?
I thought I did that.
Oh, I did to less than two, didn't I?
Does it do anything? Like what's new
with two? Is it faster? Is it better in
any way?
If you have like any sort of experiments
that say that it's like not broken, then
sure.
Sometimes I forget how cool this thing
is.
Dude, look at this.
I literally just opened the website. It
happens to be neural MMO on here. Tell
me this is not just the coolest damn
thing. This is not me playing, right?
That's like real RL there.
It's freaking kiting with the sword.
Rel's awesome.
All right, motivation reattained. Let's
go.
TLDDR. Yes, we'll merge if you're if you
have some reasonable certainty you're
not screwing everything.
Okay, that's fine then, Certy. I'll
merge that.
Isn't Muan in torch though? Like, isn't
it coming to T torch official soon?
I saw it in this source.
from tor. Well, it removes a dependency,
right?
It's probably not going to be better.
It's like I guarantee you they're just
going to go look at at Lucas's code and
copy it into T torch, right?
It just removes the depth.
a bunch of optional things. Well, we'll
test both, right?
Oh, we were going to do Yeah. Not
bucketed anymore, right?
X-Men.
Yeah, you're just dumb. Let's fix this.
I'm just being stupid.
Any
reason I'm not using CC or codeex?
Cuz they're [__]
I got uh I got Super Maven. It's fast,
stupid. It helps me type faster and it
gets out of my way.
Why would I use something that is a
worse programmer than me and then spend
times fixing shitty stupid bugs instead
of writing code?
Like look, I can basically type as fast
as I want like this.
I was thinking about what to do.
We just scale it, right?
Yeah, this is super easy actually.
Yeah. What the hell am I doing? This is
so easy.
There we go.
Yeah, that was way easier than expected.
Let's do this.
So now
now we can give this thing cmap
null pointer.
Oh, and I need this RGB command. See, I
use little tiny chunks of AI here and
there.
And it gives me utter garbage
cuz it's stupid.
You've got to be kidding me.
Well, we'll use this for now. But this
is like a terrible function.
Nice job,
Brock.
You do slow
as [__]
He uses you in 8 T's because it's
ridiculous.
What's wrong with you?
Need buckets.
Mhm.
Let's do like this then
and go in here.
Did Yes.
Okay. Color pram.
Yeah, we're going to have to clean this
thing up. But something like this.
Something like this, I think.
Don't need this
and
expected nine.
Uh I mess with this function, right?
Yeah.
Oh, cuz I didn't do plot three.
Look at all this code that we get
delete.
Look how simple life is.
All right.
Plot three.
But we'll figure out how to compress
this crap in a bit. But first, this goes
here.
Went to the gym, took a nap, and you're
still alive. Yeah, it's called work. I
work all day.
It's not even particularly intensive
work.
This is kind of me just chilling,
getting done what I can on uh on like an
off day, you know?
Let's just do a figure one first. It'll
be easier.
No, this is my main thing, dude.
Huffer is a company. All my devs open
source, but we have clients as well.
Ah,
easy.
What do I do for this? Numb hypers.
We'll just do max points.
Mhm. The idea around here, right, is
this is what I'm doing here. This is a
comprehensive effort to advance the
field of reinforcement learning, right?
There's a company around it, but a lot
of what I'm just doing here is pretty
much just basic science, a lot of
engineering.
Trying to put a field back on the map.
Nope.
Hey, boy. Where's uh
we looping? What's going on?
Is it slow?
No, it's not this.
How the hell is it slow?
But it's stuck in a loop.
That's weird.
Oh, I'm dumb. Hang on. I'm real dumb.
Me dumb.
All
right. It's drawing cubes, right?
Yeah, it's drawn.
Where are they?
You know, uh these little gaps
What if these are cubes?
Yeah, there we go.
What's up, Kvert?
Whoa,
look at that.
Oh,
smooth.
It was just a strct initialization
thing, my guy.
actually
we can figure out how to shorten this,
can't we? This block here.
So, this code is ass. Let's see if we
can figure out how to shorten this up.
This is one of those times where I wish
I had a list.
I guess the simplest alternative would
be like
And then this just we just take this
whole block, right?
The thing is it's like it's kind of
obnoxious to do it that way. Don't you
think?
I kind of hate that. Just push
everything into some stupid big function
with a million args.
which kind of sucks, doesn't it?
Like this is the right code. I just
don't want to have it twice.
Oh, I know what we can do. It's kind of
shitty, but I know how to do it.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know how to do this.
Ah,
smoked it.
Yeah, that's like the least bad hack, I
think.
I do the exact same thing here.
All right. So, let's see what the uh
damages
going to be something similar to this.
Yes.
And we do this,
this,
and then we plot.
So, right.
Boom.
So, some stuff to handle, but
at least we have this like cleaned.
hot tub stream when
sorry that's on the private tab.
Those are invite only, in person only.
also the hot tub is not ready yet
anyways. I got to get some turf
installed where it's going to go.
I am actually getting one for um
exercise recovery.
All right. So, we apply some filters.
Yeah. And now we no longer need this
stupid plot filter function.
It's literally just X
Y false false cmap filter.
Isn't that a nice
What's this? Apply filter.
Filter.
Oh, there we go.
You set it to one, not zero, though.
Oh, yeah.
to fix the color maps and stuff. But
that is some solid progress.
And then we literally just do the same
thing here.
Watch me get this entire thing under a
thousand lines feature complete. By the
time we're done with this mess,
it's going to be funny as hell.
Oh, wait. Data.n Then
stupid.
Yeah, this is better.
Yeah, it's got to be like that.
Oh, this is going to be so much better.
Go away. is.
Oh, and this one just takes a color.
It's even easier.
No filters.
Yeah. So, these do actually have to get
computed over several M's. So, we're
going to have to figure this out.
But for now,
all right. Yeah, like that.
So, we'll fix up all the colors being
weird.
Is the restroom get a quick set
Getting
hungry.
All right. So,
uh,
this has to go into the damn blocks
plot, doesn't it? No way around it.
Where is there?
Hang on.
There totally is. Right.
It'll be a little wonky,
but I bet you we do it.
Let's see.
850.
I hope you don't break things.
[Music]
Can I not just do float like can I not
just do Yes.
Can you not return um an array?
I actually don't know off the top of my
head.
Really? You can't? Bro, that's so
obnoxious.
That was kind of gross. Why the hell
can't you do that? You should totally be
able to return that, right?
Oh, did I merge your PR or did I like
get distracted and not
Oh, uh, I did. Cool.
course 860.
Try a couple of the other M.
Make sure they don't break.
Do not break the puffer or the puffer
will break you.
Hear the puffer.
Heart pole solved.
[Music]
I'm trying to think if there's any try
one of the harder M's. Maybe
like grid or something. Grid's usually
good.
If it crushes grid, I'm happy.
I got to rename that to like maze or
something.
Wait. Hyperman.
Oh, wait. Am I stupid?
I'm stupid.
How the hell will grid take 40 minutes?
What are you running on?
Potato computer.
Buffer should be way faster than that,
my guy.
All right, this is a consistent color
map. Yes.
Boom. Okay.
laptop. Lovely
potato laptop.
I merged the ROMC thing.
H
fun drivers.
Oh yeah. What are we supposed to do for
Um,
Oh,
I don't know what this is.
How fast puffer grid should run?
185k for me.
That seems slow.
Oh, it says we're only at 23.
Well, according to this, we're only at
500k, though. I remember getting like
millions before. There's something
screwy with this. But you maybe yours is
right then. I probably have to go
recheck. Like literally performance just
rots over time. Like dumb little things
get messed up and perf just rots over
time if you're not uh actively
checking [__]
[Music]
Okay. You can't actually do this for um
You can't actually do this for C map.
Yeah, you just have to write a loop.
That sucks.
Me set works for zero though.
Yeah, I don't either. It's fine.
What the [__] is this [__]
You're one
Huh?
The hell do we do with this?
Oh, dummy.
Yeah.
Yeah, Cordy. It's all right. I'll help
reoptimize at some point soon. It's on
the list.
It's basically like visualizer and then
optim
This chunk of code needs to get smaller.
[Music]
kind of tough to figure out how to do
this in one pass.
I'll get it. Just give me a second.
Oh, you know What?
Just do this.
That's pretty clean, right?
At
least for now. Yeah.
I'm better than before.
Get all this.
All right. Let's like uh let's see if we
can get this into the other plots.
It's basically the same thing just with
Which means we're going to end up being
able to simplify more, I imagine.
Oh yeah, we're definitely going to be
able to shorten this a ton.
All
right.
Yeah.
Agent steps lost.
Pick two.
Yeah, that's better, right?
I'm name.
And we can always tone down the neon as
well.
All right.
But we don't need this.
Oh, wait. We do need this.
We need the end box as well.
We need the end box, right?
So this basically this entire block but
then it replaces all this
just like incremental refactoring
Okay,
it's getting shorter.
Yeah, you need to do this log transform
shenanigans. Yeah.
Where to get the C map?
getting bottlenecked by feed forward.
No.
What would that do?
Like But
It would scale the batches.
Yeah, it would scale it to be less GPU
efficient.
then you're b like you got a profile
then cuz you're bottlenecked by other
[__]
like fix your an
Hey, boxing
C report.
Well, you caught me at a slightly bad
time for it,
but we've got a whole bunch of stuff.
Yeah, it's going well.
Um,
not entirely.
This is
There is going to be something that you
can use instead of Neptune for basic
viz.
It's not going to have like tracking of
individual runs like Neptune does the
same way.
But this is really for
this is for larger scale viz that none
of these like stupid
overengineered like zerorf web UIs can
handle.
also
constellation is going to be the basis
of a lot of 40.
So there's that.
All right. So, this is supposed to patch
all this
Whoops.
All right. Like this.
Ah,
H. You don't actually need this.
Yeah, this has got to be the wrong
typing [__] thing, right?
and selection.
Do these work? Why are these all
focused?
Okay, that works Ready?
Yeah. So, the final eval though is is
just that the final eval is an eval. It
doesn't have to run training.
Good. Nope.
There's a lot of stuff I could change
with it. Certy
What the
What is wrong with This
Oh, you know what it is.
Stupid
There we are.
And there's some wires crossed, it
seems.
But we've got the main stuff
and we've got it to a reasonable length
most part.
Uh the code is at least uh usable now.
All right, here's the plan. Um there's a
restroom real quick. do another set and
then I'm going to have about half an
hour more on this today.
Be good. And we'll get as much progress
as we can towards having this thing um
like reasonable working order.
I think we'll get to about 1,000 lines
and then we'll be well set up for the
rest of what we need to do.
Be back.
really doesn't like that.
Can't even do my presses properly.
Where is this bot to ban?
Oh, lovely. I don't have the chat loaded
correctly, so I can't even ban the bot.
Get YouTube open.
Do not have YouTube.
Well, I can't even ban him on there.
It's a Twitch bot. Damn it.
Okay, hang on.
Whatever.
Can't even get it off the damn screen.
Let's figure out what works and what
doesn't.
Huh.
Uh the logs, right?
the heck.
Oh, I know.
Um,
Ah, wait.
No, this is a bounds error.
What?
alert. Oh,
there we are.
there. Lovely. Right.
And we'll figure out this mess at the
bottom.
But it's not bad.
This needs to have All
right. This needs end of options.
Is it
This has envisions on it though.
But what the heck?
Oh, color needs it.
Yeah, this gets end of options.
And then this breaks
because
we do not have the latest thing for
this,
which is literally almost the same code
now.
Kind of ridiculous.
So, we're going to figure out how to
combine these,
I'm sure.
Still under Oh, yeah. Well, under 1.5.
Come on, don't insult me.
1080 lines.
paper key.
[Music]
I want this shoulder to be functional.
Damn it.
Can't we just like make super steroids
or something that you just inject into
injuries and it heals them? That'd be
great.
Like three or four months ago, man.
Stupid thing just refuses to heal. It's
like this very minor tweak. Like I can't
tell at all during the day, but if I put
like a 100 pounds up, I can tell.
stem cells.
They don't actually like go and replace
it properly, do they though?
I would think so.
I don't know how I don't know how much
though
side sleeper sometimes
Wait, how is this 10 thing out of
bounds?
Hyper key.
Is this called hyper key or is it not?
Could be hyper key now.
Oh, because it's not
too Hang on. Hyper key.
This is the wrong key. [__] is this
and Viper options?
Look how nice and snappy this is, right?
That's how code is supposed to work.
It's supposed to just freaking run
immediately
and then we'll figure out what's up with
this t- snake.
Oh, we're just not doing a cap on it.
Huh?
All right, first two plots are good.
What lovely, right?
What up
Well, we'll see whether it's actually
filtering.
It's not actually filtering.
Figure that out.
Get the colors.
I think how do I do this hyper filter?
Well, wait. It'll be the same for both,
won't it?
Okay. So, it is actually doing it
in some way.
Oh, wait.
Territory MVF. I think it's a hacker
neural MMO, right?
That's definitely like my um my tiling
logic and stuff, right?
No, no, that like the code for the
render is definitely straight from
neural MMO at the very least.
There's literally no way in hell anybody
goes to the effort of writing that
tiling logic from scratch. It was
horrible.
Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. Of course.
You're allowed to hack stuff in neural
MMO.
I'm simply going to say that's my damn
render logic. The much that was hard to
write that [__]
You go look at the render logic for
neural MMO. It's harder than the
environment logic
by a lot.
All right, I got to go in a few minutes
for dinner. So, um
you know, just uh before I do, I'll keep
on this for a few minutes, but um for
the folks watching me here,
all of my stuff is right here on
puffer.ai. It's all open source. You can
help me for absolutely free in 5 seconds
by starting the repo. Please do that. Uh
you can join the Discord to get involved
with development and follow me on X for
all the RL and content including all my
educational stuff and my research
articles. Pretty much everything's
there.
See if we can figure out what the heck
is wrong with this filter real quick.
Oh.
Um,
well, you can't just set stuff to one
like this.
Wait, what?
Range apply filter.
Oh
yeah, I forgot min and max, didn't I?
There we go.
Correct way to apply the filters.
And then it's probably something like
this, right?
Well, this is closer at least,
but we don't know how to fiddle this.
I'm going to call it here. I will do
this tomorrow. We'll have one last
little thing to do on this, and then
there'll be a little more from here. I'm
going to add this real quick.
Oh, and actually
we are going to end negative lines for
the day because this is no longer
needed.
But we ended in negative line territory
for the day, which is awesome.
Answer.
Yes, Spencer.
Uh, yes, Spencer. That's what it means.
and we need to chat about that project
as well. I'm going to be working on the
other one after dinner this evening.
Quick look at the uh the seapport
though. Look at the dashboard. Man,
look at this.
Who needs Neptune, right?
after dinner. Yeah, I can do that. I can
chat after dinner. Give me, I don't
know, 30-ish minutes.